"CMR STAC in R" Notebook Updates (#389)
NASA-Openscapes/earthdata-cloud-cookbook: in-development/CMR-STAC-Search.qmd

---
title: "Getting Started with NASA's CMR-STAC API in R"
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
knitr::opts_chunk$set(comment = NA)
```

**This tutorial demonstrates how to interact with CMR-STAC in R.**

This tutorial will teach you how to navigate and explore NASA's Common Metadata Repository (CMR) SpatioTemporal Asset Catalog (STAC) to learn about the datasets available through LP DAAC Cumulus cloud archive.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Topics Covered in this Tutorial

1.  **Introduction to STAC and the CMR-STAC API**\
    1a. What is STAC?\
    1b. What is the CMR-STAC API?\
2.  **Get started & searching with CMR-STAC**\
    2a. CMR-STAC API\
    2b. STAC Collection\
    2c. STAC Item\
    2d. Assets

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Required packages

-   **Required packages:**

    -   `jsonlite`: change the format of returned content
    -   `DT`: make returned information more readable
    -   `rstac`: interact with STAC catalogs

>     -   `devtools`: install development version of packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   `devtools`: install development version of packages
    -   `terra`: open DEM data once it has been discovered via STAC search
```

Here, we use the short name `ASTGTM_003` to query the STAC Collection. If you are interested in querying a different LPCLOUD product, swap out the shortname to assign to the `collection` variable below.

Users can also define other paramaters such as a temporal and spatial extent. Notice the `limit` parameter in the `body` object. This parameter allows us to adjust the number of records returned during a request (default = 10).

```{r}
# define search parameters
collection <- 'ASTGTM_003'    
datetime <- '2000-01-01T00:00:00Z/2001-01-31T23:59:59Z'   #YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ/YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ
bbox <- c(-122.0622682571411,39.897234301806,-122.04918980598451,39.91309383703065) # LL and UR Coordinates

# search
collection_search <- stac(
    lpcloud_cat_link
)|>
  stac_search(
    limit = 100,
    collections = collection,
    bbox = bbox,
    datetime = datetime
  ) |>
  get_request()

print(collection_search)
```

We can see that the output includes the number of items that fall within the search criteria, the assets, and fields.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 2c. STAC Item

> STAC Item represents data and metadata assets that are spatiotemporally coincident. Using our STAC Query, let's get the first item from our STAC collection search in the above cell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
STAC Items represent data and metadata assets that are spatiotemporally coincident. Using our STAC Query, let's get the first item from our STAC collection search in the above cell.
```
